OKTA-1122778 Terraform ITP guide (#6107)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/terraform-manage-itp/main/index.md

* Terraform CLI version 1.14.7 or later
* [Okta Terraform provider 6.9.0](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) or later
* Familiarity with the Terraform terms: configuration, resources, state, and commands (see [Terraform overview](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-overview/main/))
* A Terraform [API service app integration](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/main/#create-an-api-service-app-to-manage-terraform-access) in your org

---

## Identity Threat Protection resources

Identity Threat Protection with Okta AI (ITP) is a continuous identity threat detection and response solution that detects and responds to threats as they occur. ITP continuously evaluates users and their sessions, receiving risk signals from the Okta risk engine and security event providers. When ITP identifies changes in a user's risk, network zone, device, or behavior, it launches automated mitigation and remediation actions, such as Universal Logout. See [Identity Threat Protection with Okta AI](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-itp-overview).

> ITP features that can be managed through the Okta API and, consequently, the Terraform Provider include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ITP features that you can manage through the Okta API and, consequently, the Terraform Provider include:
```

Author: Sorry, this line was supposed to be removed.

> The [Okta Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest) now supports ITP resource configuration, as well as existing IAM resource configuration, such as groups, users, devices, and authentication services. The following ITP resources can be managed through the Okta Terraform provider:

Reviewer: I changed this because this sentence to fit with the stem sentence above. You're introducing what ITP features you can manage through the API and Terraform, but then start that sentence with The Okta Terraform provider after you've already stated that in the intro sentence.

```suggestion
* ITP resource configuration
* Existing IAM resource configuration, such as groups, users, devices, and authentication services

You can manage the following ITP resources through the [Okta Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest):
```

Author: Sorry, I removed the first sentence. It wasn't supposed to be there.

* **Network zones:** Configure boundaries to control access based on location, IP, or ASN.
* **Policies:** Define policies for continuous threat evaluation.

> * **User risk**: Define user risk levels that require mitigation .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **User risk**: Define user risk levels that require mitigation.
```

* **Shared Signals:** Configure third-party security vendor connections to receive security-related events.

> > **Note**:

Reviewer: Is there a formatting reason why you started the note content on another line?

Author: The note content could all be in one line. However, it looks like there are more unsupported ITP resources, so I'll have to convert this to a bullet list. Thanks

> To configure remediation action for apps, such as Universal Logout, you must use the Admin Console. You can’t configure Okta app integrations with Universal Logout through Terraform at this time. See how to [Configure Universal Logout in ITP](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/content/topics/itp/config-universal-logout) from the Admin Console in the product documentation.

> Before you can configure ITP with Terraform, you need to set up Terraform access for ITP resources. See [Set up Terraform access for ITP](#set-up-terraform-access-for-itp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can configure ITP with Terraform, you need to set up Terraform access for ITP resources. 
```

### Admin role

Grant the super admin role (`SUPER_ADMIN`) to your Terraform API service app integration in Okta to manage the ITP resources. See [Assign admin roles](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/main/#assign-admin-roles).

### **Scopes**

1. Grant the following OAuth 2.0 scopes to your Terraform API service app integration in Okta. See [Grant API scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/main/#grant-api-scopes).
    * `okta.userRisk.manage`
    * `okta.securityEventsProviders.manage`
    * `okta.networkZones.manage`
    * `okta.policies.manage`
2. Add the same scopes to your Okta provider Terraform configuration:

    ```bash
    provider "okta" {
      org_name = "[ORG NAME e.g. dev-123456]"
      base_url = "[okta.com|oktapreview.com]"
      client_id = "[APP CLIENT_ID]"
      private_key_id = "[PRIVATE KEY ID - KID]"
      private_key = "[PRIVATE KEY]"
      scopes = "okta.userRisk.manage, okta.securityEventsProviders.manage,okta.apps.manage, okta.networkZones.manage, okta.policies.manage"
    }
    ```

### Terraform files

> For guidance on organizing your files, see [Organizing your configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/main/). Consider organizing your Terraform code so that related resources are grouped together. For example, you could create a Terraform file called `policies.tf` that contains all your policy resources, and `ssf.tf` to configure your shared signal vendors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For guidance on organizing your files, see [Organizing your configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/main/). Consider organizing your Terraform code so that related resources are grouped together. For example, you could create a Terraform file called `policies.tf` that contains all of your policy resources, and `ssf.tf` to configure your shared signal vendors.
```

    **Example:** Configure a user's risk level

    ```bash
    resource "okta_user_risk" "example" {
      user_id = okta_user.example.id
      risk_level = "HIGH"
    }
    ```

### Shared Signals

The Shared Signals Framework (SSF) allows Okta to receive security events from third-party vendors (such as EDR or CASB providers). This provides ITP with a broader context of the user’s security posture outside of Okta.

See [Shared Signals Framework](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/content/topics/itp/shared-signals.htm) in the product documentation.

### SSF receiver

You can set up Okta as an SSF receiver by configuring a security events provider resource to connect Okta and the SSF transmitting vendor. Use the `okta_security_events_provider` resource to establish the connection with your security vendor.

**Example:** Configure the security events provider resource

```bash
resource "okta_security_events_provider" "example_issuer" {
  name = "Security Events Provider with an issuer and a JWKS URL"
  type = "okta"
  is_enabled = "ACTIVE"
  settings {
    issuer   = "Issuer"
    jwks_url = "https://example.okta.com/jwks/path"
  }
}

```

## Apply the configuration

> Once your Terraform configuration is complete, run the standard deployment flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After your Terraform configuration is complete, run the standard deployment flow:
```

1. Initialize the Terraform configuration:

   ```bash
   terraform init
   ```

1. Review the Terraform configuration changes to apply:

   ```bash
   terraform plan
   ```

1. Execute the configuration to create or update the ITP resources in your Okta org:

   ```bash
   terraform apply
   ```

> Review your Okta org for the configuration changes. Filter for ITP events in the System Logs. See [Identity Threat Protection Event Types](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/itp-et/).

Reviewer: can those two sentences be combined? Or did I change the meaning?
```suggestion
Review your Okta org for the configuration changes by filtering for ITP events in the System Logs. See [Identity Threat Protection Event Types](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/itp-et/).
```

---

## Identity Threat Protection resources

Identity Threat Protection with Okta AI (ITP) is a continuous identity threat detection and response solution that detects and responds to threats as they occur. ITP continuously evaluates users and their sessions, receiving risk signals from the Okta risk engine and security event providers. When ITP identifies changes in a user's risk, network zone, device, or behavior, it launches automated mitigation and remediation actions, such as Universal Logout. See [Identity Threat Protection with Okta AI](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-itp-overview).

The [Okta Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest) now supports ITP resource configuration, and existing IAM resource configuration, such as groups, users, devices, and authentication services. The following ITP resources can be managed through the Okta Terraform provider:

* **Network zones**: Configure boundaries to control access based on location, IP, or ASN.
* **Policies**: Define policies for continuous threat evaluation.

> * **Behavior detection rules**: Define rules for the sign-in policy.

Reviewer: I believe that this should be sign-on policy, now - sadly.
```suggestion
* **Behavior detection rules**: Define rules for the sign-on policy.
```

1. Import the object to your Terraform state. See [`okta_session_violation_policy_rule` import example](https://github.com/okta/terraform-provider-okta/blob/master/examples/resources/okta_session_violation_policy_rule/) in the `terraform-provider-okta` GitHub repository.

    ```bash
    terraform import okta_session_violation_policy_rule.svp_rule <policy_id>/<rule_id>
    ```

3. Configure your session violation policy rule. See [Terraform data source: okta_session_violation_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/data-sources/session_violation_policy) and [Terraform resource: okta_session_violation_policy_rule](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/session_violation_policy_rule).

    **Example:** Configure the session violation policy rule.

    ```bash
    data "okta_session_violation_policy" "sv_policy" {
    }

    resource "okta_session_violation_policy_rule" "sv_rule" {
      policy_id = data.okta_session_violation_policy.sv_policy.id
      name = "My Session Violation Rule"
      min_risk_level = "HIGH"
      policy_evaluation_enabled = true
    }
    ```

>  Alternatively, you can add an import block to your `.tf` file. See [Import existing resources](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-import-existing-resources/main/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can add an import block to your `.tf` file. See [Import existing resources](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/terraform-import-existing-resources/main/).
```

See [Entity risk policy](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=csh-entity-risk-policy) in the product documentation.

> **Note**: An ITP-enabled Okta org contains a default immutable entity risk policy rule with `priority` 99. This rule is intended as a catch-all if none of the higher-priority rules are triggered. Therefore, you must create your custom rule with a higher priority (lower number in the `priority` field, for example: `priority < 99`).

1. Configure your entity risk policy rule. See [Terraform data source: okta_entity_risk_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/data-sources/entity_risk_policy) and [Terraform resource: okta_entity_risk_policy_rule](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/entity_risk_policy_rule).

    **Example:** Configure an entity risk rule.

    ```bash
    data "okta_entity_risk_policy" "er_policy" {
    }

    resource "okta_entity_risk_policy_rule" "er_high_rule" {
      policy_id = data.okta_entity_risk_policy.er_policy.id
      name = "High Risk - Terminate Sessions"
      risk_level = "HIGH"
      terminate_all_sessions = true
    }
    ```

### Behavior detection rules

> Behavior detection rules are used to configure location, device, IP address, or velocity behavior rules for a sign-in policy. Use the `okta_behavior` or `okta_behaviors` data sources to retrieve and configure the `okta_behavior` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behavior detection rules are used to configure location, device, IP address, or velocity behavior rules for a sign-on policy. Use the `okta_behavior` or `okta_behaviors` data sources to retrieve and configure the `okta_behavior` resource.
```
